Onboardee checklist additions (#27)
City-of-Helsinki/bestpractice: docs/onboardee-checklist.md

* It is fine if you spend ~2 working days to complete this checklist. Or more if needed by letting your tutor know.
* Please consider updating this checklist once you feel you're settled here to prevent this going out of date and causing new team members confusion and hassles.

### Understand City of Helsinki organization as a developer
![City of Helsinki organization as a developer](../static/city_of_helsinki.png)

> * City of Helsinki has plenty of **separate** departments, from which the most important ones you'll be dealing with are **KuVa** and **Kanslia**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* City of Helsinki has plenty of separate departments, [[KuVa specific:]] from which the most important ones you'll be dealing with are **KuVa** and **Kanslia**.
```

> * KuVa (Kulttuuri ja Vapaa-aika) is the Culture and Leisure department and Kanslia (Kaupunginkanslia) is the City Hall department.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* KuVa (Kulttuuri ja Vapaa-aika) is the Culture and Leisure department and Kanslia (Kaupunginkanslia) is the executive office.  All departments are listed [on this page](https://www.hel.fi/helsinki/fi/kaupunki-ja-hallinto/hallinto/organisaatio/toimialat).  Kymp = Kaupunkiympäristö, Kasko = Kasvatus ja koulutus, Sote = Sosiaali- ja terveysala
```

> * KuVa and Kanslia both have:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The different departments have:
```

    * Their own budgets
    * Their own development goals
    * Their own office space
    * Their own developers
    * Their own infrastructure they deploy their services to

> * There's plenty of collaboration between KuVa and Kanslia as some of the services developed by Kanslia and deployed in Kanlisa are heavily used by some KuVa services, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Some of the services developed by Kanslia are heavily used by some KuVa services, and some Kuva services are deployed by Kanslia.
```

* There's plenty of collaboration between KuVa and Kanslia as some of the services developed by Kanslia and deployed in Kanlisa are heavily used by some KuVa services, for example.
* Your onboader on the first day should tell you whether you're working in KuVa or Kanslia, if location of office or other things haven't given it away already 😀

### Ensure that you have access to essential services you need as a developer
* Choose an email address of your own that you'd like to use for working in City of Helsinki.

>     * Unless you're working for City of Helsinki itself, as a developer, you won't get hel.fi email accounts, but this is being reconsiderred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Unless you're working for City of Helsinki itself, as a developer, you won't get hel.fi email accounts, but this might change in the future.
```

* Choose your Github and Gitlab username that you'd like to use for working in City of Helsinki.

> * Give your email and Github and Gitlab usernames to your **onbaorder** so they can give you access to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Give your email and Github and Gitlab usernames to your onboarder so they can give you access to:
```

    * [City of Helsinki Slack](https://helsinkicity.slack.com/)
    * [KuVa's Atlassian for Jira, Confluence, etc](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/overview)
    * [KuVa's Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/City-of-Helsinki/KuVa)

>     * [KuVa's Github](https://github.com/orgs/City-of-Helsinki/teams/kuva-developers/members)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * [Helsinki's Atlassian for Jira, Confluence, etc](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/overview)
    * [[KuVa specific:]] [KuVa's Gitlab](https://gitlab.com/City-of-Helsinki/KuVa)
    * [[KuVa specific:]] [KuVa's Github team](https://github.com/orgs/City-of-Helsinki/teams/kuva-developers/members)
```

* Skim through [this page in Jira](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/851980/Services+and+accounts+for+new+developers) and see if any of
the items there are relavent to you as well.

>    * We should ideally remove that page and move its `onboardee` items to here, and it's `onboarder` items to [onboarder's checklist](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/416940090/Onboarding+checklist).

Reviewer: Well, I get this, but maybe this doc is not the right place.

Reviewer: Instead, the TODO could be put into Jira (Kuva-AOK project).

Author: I didn't understand:
> Instead, the TODO could be put into Jira (Kuva-AOK project).

1. Do you mean adding a TODO comment here to later put this `onboardee` checklist in Jira?
2. Or do you mean actually moving this `onboardee` checklist to Jira straight away?
3. Something else?

Reviewer: Yes, I was not very clear in what I said.  3. Something else: Create Jira issue about moving stuff from wiki to this checklist.  That's admittedly a bit silly but the option is to refactor stuff from https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/851980/Services+and+accounts+for+new+developers into onboarding lists right away.

Author: Alright, I created a ticket for it: https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/browse/TH-583 👍🏼

* [Optional] City of Helsinki heavily uses Jira, Slack, and Teams for tasks management and video calls.
You may want to install native clients of those for your operating system or bookmark them for easier access.

### Ensure that you have setup all that is required to operate within a team

> * `Stadinetti` is our wi-fi of choice at the office which you may connect to if you want.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [[AOK (KuVa, Kanslia) specific:]] `Stadinetti` is our wi-fi of choice at the office which you may connect to if you want.
```

    * There are a few known issues related to `Stadinetti` like IMAP not working or hanging on inital connection to Google which are being investigated.
    * Because of this, some folks hotspot their internet from their phones and connect to internet like that.
* Learn [how to report your working hours](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/30015547/Work+hours+tracking).

> * Integrate [KuVa's calendar](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/47677441/Calendar+usage) into your calendar workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [[KuVa specific:]] Integrate [KuVa's calendar](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/47677441/Calendar+usage) into your calendar workflow.
```

* Based on the team you've joined in your physical developer onboarding meeting, ensure that you know exactly which team's daily and
sprint demo/retro/planning/refinement you should join on your calendar.

### Get to know people!
* You should have been assigned a tutor by your onboarder in the physical developer onboarding meeting.
* Your tutor is your go-to buddy and you can ask all your questions from them.

> * Write a few lines to introduce yourself to everyone in `#kuva-aok` Slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [[KuVa specific:]] Write a few lines to introduce yourself to everyone in `#kuva-aok` Slack channel.
```

* Your team members should ideally pick you up for lunch themselves, but in the hopefully-unlikely scenario that they forget, feel free to ask and tag along with them! 👍

> * If you feel like you got jokes or opinions you want to share, `#ratkis-kitchenette` is the fun 😀 slack channel and the place to be!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [[KuVa specific:]] If you feel like you got jokes or opinions you want to share, `#ratkis-kitchenette` is the fun 😀 slack channel and the place to be!
```

> * You can also take a look at the list of [people working here](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/753891/People) and contact some/any of them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [[KuVa specific:]] You can also take a look at the list of [people working here](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/753891/People) and contact some/any of them
```

* Write a few lines to introduce yourself to everyone in `#kuva-aok` Slack channel.
* Your team members should ideally pick you up for lunch themselves, but in the hopefully-unlikely scenario that they forget, feel free to ask and tag along with them! 👍
* If you feel like you got jokes or opinions you want to share, `#ratkis-kitchenette` is the fun 😀 slack channel and the place to be!
* You can also take a look at the list of [people working here](https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/753891/People) and contact some/any of them
you feel their work is interesting and ask them what they're doing work-wise for example!

- read and make sure you've understood development practices:
  - https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/65679/Development+practices
  - at least the main page, and check that you know approximately what
    kind of information there is so you can get back to it upon need
  - ask for clarifications if something is unclear
  - fix missing parts
- get to know people
  - write a short (say couple of lines) introduction about yourself to
    #kuva-aok
  - get people to join you for lunch

>   - start an opinionated discussion about whatever on

Reviewer: I still think this is a good suggestion :D

Author: Sure :) Done in 67440ff93ab72806040c2e132477a9a5357d6a13

    kind of information there is so you can get back to it upon need
  - ask for clarifications if something is unclear
  - fix missing parts
- ensure you have the conditions of working good
  - test wifi is working at the office (Stadinetti)
  - you have access or have integrated the calendar somehow

>   - you have access and know how to use Jira

Reviewer: This seems to be missing, but maybe it was added later?

Reviewer: yes.

* You can read the main page of the document practices completely, and **sneak peak** into the linked children pages to get the high level image you'd need and be
able to get back to them later upon need.

- read and make sure you've understood your service's documentation
  - see appropriate page in
    https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/655463/Services
  - see your project's README.md files
  - test your service
  - see that the docs adhere to
    https://helsinkisolutionoffice.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DD/pages/753772/Documentation+practices
  - fix missing parts

> - are you able to set up a development environment for what you're developing,

Reviewer: I think this criterion of "have you got a dev env up and running" is not useless.  Consider including it somehow.

Author: Under the `Get your service up and running` section, it's written that they should get it up and running and it's actually a very important step:

> * Get the local development environment of the repository you'll be coding in up and running **using README.md**
>      * **This is an important step** because it would not make sense to start coding a feature if a new team member cannot effortlessly get the dev env up and
    running based on README.md instructions.

So, to my understanding, it is already included.

Reviewer: ah, sorry for being unclear.
I meant that the criterion _when the dev env is up and running_ is that you can log in and use its functionality.
So my point is that the text you pointed out "Get your service up and running" should have a sentence like:
"Your service can be considered up and running if you can log in to your local environment (if it has login functionality) and use the service locally."
Or something similar.

Author: Ah I see, yeah you're right that I removed the specification of what exactly is "up and running".. My bad!

* At this point, you're ready to ask your team members or your tutor for a dev task of sensible difficulty.
* Ask your team members for feedback to see if they think you're doing fine and how to take it from here onwards.

- are you able to get a review environment for your pull request?
  - if not, raise the issue

> - are you able to diagnose why your build failed (if it did)?

Reviewer: I'd find it relevant that the devs know where to see their builds and their logs.  But maybe that's for later?

Author: Agreed fully that they should know.. I personally think it's something to be learned as part of their daily work and not in the "bootstrap" phase of onboarding. Because we had discussed that the goal of the onboardee checklist is:

>  * The ultimate goal of this checklist is to get you from the moment you start working here to taking a dev ticket as smoothly as possible 🧡

And them not knowing where the builds status and logs are doesn't prevent them from taking a dev ticket I think.

Reviewer: You might be right.
